# SmartPlug-APP
This is an Android App that I made for my Final project in college. This app was able to control a "smartplug" made using an Arduino and some modules. 

This application seeks to reduce the consumption of electricity in Dominican homes. The constant monitoring and control of each device means that it can significantly improve the consumption of electricity and benefit both the user's pocket and the environment.

The product will provide, in a simple and intuitive way, all the necessary information to control and monitor the electricity consumption generated by the home. The application will contain important statistics at the time of making decisions and will promote energy savings through graphs and comparisons with previous data. One of these will be the daily consumption generated by each device, space or building you have registered in the application, with this information you will have an idea of ​​how the consumption goes during the time.


Minimum requirements for installation:
* A smartphone from mid-range onwards.
* Have 30 MB for installation of the application.
* Fast and stable connection to the internet.
* Operating system android (5.0.0) lollipop or higher.
* (Optional) Smartphone with screen of 4.3 inches and up.

Some of the features of this app are:

* Censing the consumption:
The device will have a current reader in which the approximate real time consumption of the device can be monitored. The consumption will be saved periodically so that it can be analyzed later. The power consumed will be accessible in different ways. This can be obtained by device, space or building. Having this information, it will be possible to show additional information to the user through different calculations.

* Set Off and On Schedules:
One of the main reasons why it usually consumes more energy than necessary is not to turn off the devices when they are not being used. To solve this problem the application allows you to turn on and off the device from any part using a smartphone. But in most cases the user forgets to perform this action. For this and in order to save energy routines can be established where it will be determined when a device should be turned on or off. The mechanics to be used will be very similar to what is done when setting an alarm.

* Statistics on consumption:
The application will have several sections where you can see the details of each device, space or building. Among these details you will find: average, total and current time of ignition, average and current consumption, the average power consumed by the device, the possible cost that this consumption could generate among other things. In this section you will also find graphs showing the data named above and giving the user an easy way to interpret them.

* Approximate cost of consumption:
The user may enter the prices of the kWh according to the restrictions of the energy supplier. With this information we can calculate the cost at the end of the month. In this way the user can have an idea about the expenses and thus make a decision that leads to reduce electricity consumption.

* Control of consumption (Setting Limits):
The user will have the possibility of establishing a limit to the consumption of the devices. The same can be done with the spaces (set of devices) and buildings (set of spaces) already established. The user will be notified when the device, space or building has reached 50%, 75% and% 100 of the established limit. By the time the device reaches the specified consumption several measures can be taken:

A notification will be sent to the user informing that the device, space or building has reached the established limit.
The user will also have the possibility of activating the automatic shutdown of the device at the moment when the consumption reaches the limit.

When you select the notification you will be sent to the device settings views so that the device can modify the limit or deactivate the automatic shutdown option.

* Control the devices (On/off):
This is the most basic but at the same time most important functionality of the device. The main objective of the device is to save energy and this will be achieved by controlling the appliances connected to the device. You can select the corresponding device with the appliance you want to control and you can open or close (turn on or off) the circuit of this.

As stated earlier, the device will only have two states: On and Off. As soon as it is connected, the circuit will start open state, ie, off. This decision was made to take care of the appliances and give the user time to first configure the device and then use it.

* Separation of devices by spaces:
In order to have a better management of all the devices found in the home, it was decided to categorize them according to the room or space where they are located. This way, the user can easily locate what he wants to control. Each category may have an indefinite number of devices. Each device will have its name specified by the user when configuring it. In the same way each category will be created by the user.

Some of the technologies used:

* MPAndroidChart: This is responsible for making all the graphics of the application. Its versatility, easy use and aesthetics made this the library of choice for the development of the system.

* Firebase Messaging: Firebase Cloud Messaging (FCM) is a cross-platform messaging solution that allows you to send messages securely and for free. With FCM, you can notify a client app that a new email or other information is available for synchronization. You can send notification messages to increase retention and retention of users.

* Firebase Database (Database in the cloud): Firebase Realtime Database is a database hosted in the cloud. The data is stored in JSON format and synchronized in real time with each connected client. When you compile cross-platform apps with our iOS, Android and JavaScript SDKs, all your customers share an instance of Realtime Database and receive updates automatically with the latest data.

* Firebase Authentication: Firebase Authentication provides easy-to-use backend services, SDKs, and ready-made UI libraries to authenticate users to your application. It supports authentication using passwords, phone numbers, popular federated identity providers, such as Google, Facebook and Twitter, and much more.

* Realm Database (Persistence of data in the mobile): it is an alternative to SQLite and Core Data. Thanks to its zero copy design, Realm Database is much faster than an ORM, and often faster than plain SQLite.



